in this lecture we give an overview of
text mining and analytics first let's
define the term text mining and the term
text for analytics the title of this
course is called
text mining and analytics but the two
terms text mining and text analytics are
actually roughly the same so we are not
going to really distinguish them and
we're going to use them interchangeably
but the reason why we have chosen to use
both tons in the title is because there
is also some subtle difference if you
look at the two phrases literally mining
emphasizes more on the process so it
gives us a algorithm very good view of
the problem analytics on the other hand
emphasizes more on the result or having
a program in mind we are going to look
at the text data to help us solve a
problem but again as I said we can treat
these two terms roughly the same and I
think in the literature you probably
will find the same so we're not going to
really distinguish them in the course
post text mining and text analytics mean
that we want to turn text data into high
quality information or actionable
knowledge so in both cases we have the
problem of dealing with a lot of text
data and we hope to turn these text data
into something more useful to us then
the raw text data and here with the stew
is two different results one is high
quality information the other is
actually more knowledge now sometimes
the boundary between the two is not so
clear but I also want to say a little
bit about
these two different angles of the result
of text remaining in the case of
high-quality information will refer to
more concise information about the topic
which might be much easier for humans to
digest than the raw text data for
example you might face a lot of reviews
of a product the more concise form of
the information would be a very concise
summary of the major opinions about the
features of the product positive about
let's say battery life of a laptop now
this kind of results are very useful to
help people digest text data and so this
is what minimize a human effort in
consuming text data in some sense the
other kind of output is actionable
knowledge here we emphasize the utility
of the information or knowledge we
discover from text data it's actionable
knowledge for some decision problem or
some actions to take for example we
might be able to determine which product
is more appealing to us or a better
choice for a shocking decision now such
an outcome could be called action or
knowledge because a consumer can take
the knowledge and make a decision and
act on it
so in this case text mining supplies
knowledge for optimal decision making
but again the two are not so clearly
distinguishable so we don't necessarily
have to make a distinction
text mining is also related to texture
retrieval which is the essential
component thing and it has remaining
systems our text or retrieval refers to
finding relevant information from a
large amount of text data so I've taught
another separate book on text retrieval
and search engines where we discuss
various techniques for texture retrieval
if you have taken that book and you will
find some some overlap and it will be
useful to know the background of text
which will evolve for understanding some
of the topics in text mining but if you
have not taken that book it's also fine
because in this more context mining and
analytics we're going to repeat the some
of the key concepts that are relevant
for text mining but at the high level
let me also explain the relation between
text retrieval and text mining text
retrieval is very useful for text mining
in two ways
first text original can be a
preprocessor for text mining meaning
that it can help us turn big text data
into a relatively small amount of most
relevant text data which is often what's
needed for solving a particular problem
and in this sense text retrieval also
helps minimize human effort tax
retriever is also needed for knowledge
providence and this roughly corresponds
to the interpretation of text mining as
turning texture that are into actionable
knowledge once we find the patterns in
text data or action more knowledge we
generally would have to verify the
knowledge by looking at the original
text data so the users would have to
have some text retrieval support go back
to the original text data to interpret
the pattern or to to better understand
the
nology or to verify whether the pattern
is really reliable so this is a
high-level introduction to the concept
of text mining and the relation between
text mining and retrieval next let's
talk about text data as a special kind
of data now it's interesting to view
text data as data generated by humans as
subject of sensors so this slide shows
and that shows an analogy between text
data and non text data and between
humans and subjective senses and
physical senses such effort such as a
network sensor or thermometer so in
general a sensor would monitor the real
world in some way it was sensed some
signal from the real world and then
would report the signal as data in
various forms for example a thermometer
would watch the temperature of real
world and then will report the
temperature in a particular format
similarly chill sensor would sense the
location and then report the location
specification for example in the form of
longitude value or and led to a value
network sensor with mortar network
traffic or activities in the network and
reported some digital format of of data
similarly we can think of humans as
subjective sensors that would observe
the real world and from some perspective
and then humans would express what they
have observed in the form of test data
so in this sense human is actually a
subjective sensor that would also sense
what's happening in the world and then
express what's observed in the form of
data in this case text data now looking
at the text later on this way has
advantage of being able to integrate all
kinds of data together and that's indeed
needed in most data mining problems so
here we are looking at the general
problem of data mining and in general we
would be dealing with a lot of data
about our world that are related to a
problem and in general we'll be dealing
with both non-text data and text data
and of course the non text data are
usually produced by physical sensors and
those non text data can be also of
different formats numerical data
categorical or relational there are or
mark immediately or not like video or
speech I
so these non text data are often very
important in some problems but text data
is also very important most of it
because they contain a lot of semantic
content and they often contain knowledge
about the users especially preferences
and opinions of users so but by treating
text data as the data observed from
human sensors we can treat all these
data together in the same framework so
the data mining problem is basically to
turn such data turn all the data into
actionable knowledge that we can take
the van de G to change the real world of
course for better so this means the data
mining problem is basically taking a lot
of data as input and giving action more
knowledge as output inside the data
mining
module you can also see we have a number
of different kind of mining algorithms
and this is because for different kinds
of data we generally need different
algorithms for mining the data for
example video data might require
computer vision to understand video
content and that would facility the more
effective mining and we also have a lot
of general algorithms that are
applicable to all kinds of data and
those algorithms of course are very
useful although for particular kind of
data we generally want to also develop a
special algorithms so this course will
cover specialized algorithms that are
particularly useful for mining text data